Hello, everybody in the stream.
Thanks for coming and showing up.
We're going to get started with the Python Bytes episode.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 253, recorded October 6, 2021.
I'm Brian Okken.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
And we've got with us,
yeah, I mean, yes, this is me.
So welcome. Hey, before we jump into some of our,
topics, could you tell us a little bit about yourself?
Um, sure. Of course. first of all,
I'm super excited to be here a little bit nervous because it's my first
podcast ever.
And I'm very happy to be on Python Vites.
It's a podcast I've been listening to, I think, for the last five years,
about the same time I got into Python.
So right now I'm, I started like recently a month ago, I started
working at a new company, cybersecurity company called Cycognito.
They're doing some cool stuff, automated network perimeter security
for Fortune 500 companies.
Very interesting approach.
What I do there is I'm a infrastructure
and internal tools developer in Python, of course.
And I've been doing Python for the last six years
as a developer, as a backend developer,
as an automation developer.
I actually started my career as a QA engineer.
I didn't have any coding background,
so I kind of learned Python on the job,
starting from little scripts and snippets,
and then I got into pytest and automation.
And at some point I just switched to,
yeah, full-time developer,
but still, testing is something very precious to me.
I'm very invested in it, so yeah.
- It's kind of important to me, too.
- Yeah, I know.
(laughing)
- Yeah, awesome.
So I had a feeling.
Thank you.
- Well, Michael, let's kick it off with some awesomeness.
- Yeah, I love awesome things.
So let's kick it off with awesome HTMX.
So we've covered many awesome lists
and one of the hottest technologies
in the Python space these days,
and at least with the web is over at htmx.org,
a really cool way to basically create apps
that you would normally create with Vue or React,
but just do it all in Python and mostly on the server,
which is really cool.
So let's see, make sure I get the name right here.
Rageshagar, probably messed it up, sorry,
but put together this list, thank you,
for keeping track of all the things that are awesome
that have to do with HTMX.
So if you look down here, there's like blog posts,
tools, videos, examples.
And what's kind of nice about it is it's not just,
here's a Python list of using this framework,
but it's this framework in a lot of different situations
that might be useful to people.
So for example, if you wanna know how to use it in Django,
there's an example, or rather a blog post for that.
There's one for using Tailwind with Flask.
There's one for doing it with,
somewhere in here, I don't see it yet,
but there's a Ruby on Rails one.
There's plugins for HTMS, like so if you do craft,
which is a CMS, there's Django integration,
Rails integration, all kinds of stuff.
And there's videos, check out number three here,
Python Bytes, HTMX, Dynamic and Live HTML without JavaScript.
That's our YouTube live stream that we had,
I think that was Hannah Stepnik,
who was on with us on that episode.
And so there's some videos you can check out about it.
There's also the Talk Python episode
where I interviewed Carson Gross, the creator.
So they're including our stuff,
which is very much appreciated.
But then also a bunch of examples for like Node.js
and ASP.NET and oh my gosh, a Lisp.
A Lisp is in there, but yeah,
like plenty of Python ones as well.
Yeah.
- This is cool.
And yeah, I actually gave some try using HTML.
I don't do a lot of front end.
Really nice to get rid of some ad hoc JavaScript.
- Yeah.
- Stuff I did.
- It works so well, doesn't it?
Ah.
- Yeah, and I really don't enjoy doing JavaScript
because I'm not a front end developer,
but sometimes I need to provide some kind of a UI interface
and then it requires JavaScript.
and then I usually just take some snippets
from Stack Overflow and throw it in there.
And when I tried HTMX,
it was so much cleaner to understand what's going on there.
Very, very nice.
- I think I need a sticker for my laptop
that says I really don't enjoy using JavaScript.
- So one thing I would like to throw out there
that people, when I'm doing a talk in San Francisco
people heard the title, which is something like, you know,
interactive Python web apps, hold the JavaScript, something
like that. And they're like, Oh, why are you always hating on
JavaScript? I'm not, I don't think that this is so much about
hating on JavaScript. If you want to do JavaScript, knock
yourself out, you can write you can like a lot of these
examples are node json express using HTMX. But the three of us
on this call, we're not like I can't wait to run out and write
stuff that runs on node, we'd much rather go write stuff that runs on Python.
So what this lets us do is still use like Python code on the server, but then it
just behaves as if it was running on the front end.
It's super smooth.
Just like y'all said, like it really cleans things up and makes it simple.
Yeah.
So here's a bunch of awesome stuff.
There's a bunch of other languages I don't want to work in either.
Awesome.
Well, there's not a whole lot more to add to this,
but it's nice when these emerging technologies
are coming along to get some help
and examples and other resources.
So thanks, Raj, for putting together this awesome list.
- Yeah.
Well, I can't believe I got this topic.
You guys, yeah, anyway.
Python 3.10, so excited.
Came out two days ago.
I'm loving it.
I've switched.
I'm using it at work, I'm using it at home.
And it's not like it's new.
I mean, one of the things there was an article.
I'll just go through a few topics.
One, the logo is awesome.
310 launch logo.
Super cool.
Yeah, I love it.
I want a sticker like that.
There's a couple of videos that I think
are good to at least know about.
There's the launch party that started off with some awesome hats.
They basically actually walked through
the entire launch process of going of making 310 live and on on on camera. It's three hours long
though. I only watched a little bit but uh great hats. This is cool. Yeah so this is by the people
who are actually releasing. It's not a party celebrating the launch it's the actual launch.
The actual launch. Right that's awesome. But um uh Jeff Brayans hosted I think that was a
pre-recorded thing but there was a what's new in Python 3.10 video that I this is more
consumable at 33 minutes. I watched this while it was live or while it was being broadcast
at first just a couple days ago and it's really interesting. This one's really great. I thought
I knew everything that was coming in 3.10. The thing that I really love about this video
is there's Lucas Lange and I can't remember somebody else talked about, do you know who
the other person was?
Sebastian Ramirez and Brant Boucher.
Okay.
And Lucas talked about some of the details on, well, a couple of them were talking about
the, I'm getting this wrong.
What's the thing?
The structural pattern matching, that's it.
Yes.
Super switch.
>> Yeah. Is structural pattern matching?
It's really cool.
I haven't come up with a reason to use it yet,
but give me time.
There was a big discussion on this, which was neat.
It was a tutorial right there.
Then also a discussion of why black doesn't work for it yet.
That was the odd takeaway that I wasn't expecting is,
If you're really addicted to black,
you can't use structural pattern
mashing and black together right now.
They will catch up, but they have
two different parsers for Python
and getting them all cut up will be,
it'll take a little time, so be patient.
>> Nice. Yeah, this is big news.
>> Yeah, that's huge.
But I guess if you still want to use black,
you just need to just do formatting off on the block
when you use pattern matching.
- You actually have to put it in a different file
'cause you can't, the format off doesn't work in the file.
- Oh, really?
- I tried that.
- I thought, and it didn't work.
Interesting. - It didn't work.
- Oh, that's a bummer.
Okay.
- But all the other features of 3TED seem to work fine.
- Yeah, very nice.
Some of the things that jump out that are exciting for me
is X pipe Y versus rather than X,
you know, union of X comma Y or optional of X
versus X comma or X pipe none.
Those are nice.
The additional type information and better error messages.
Those are the things that I'm looking forward to.
Except for I'm not really looking forward to errors.
I generally don't like that,
but once you're there, I prefer better error messages.
I think everybody teaching Python is going to love the error messages.
So.
Oh, the error messages are two days ago.
I was refactoring some code and I had some, well, a bit complex expression.
It was like, let's do some asserting.
And so another parenthesis, and I guess I missed something.
And then I would have, I had this error, like expression is expected.
And I'm like, what expression?
So I dare, and I wasted literally like about three minutes
figuring out what expression it's missing.
And eventually it ended up like I missed some curly brackets
and I really expect, I mean, yeah,
pattern matching is great.
The type hinting is awesome.
But those specific like little things, I don't know.
I think it's like really bumps your dev experience.
So yeah.
- Yeah, it definitely does.
Speaking of better error messages and stuff,
I'm planning on just integrating a rich,
like the trace back stuff and all those kinds of things,
just into all my apps, 'cause it's just better.
And it's one line of code at the top, so very nice.
- Yeah, that's cool.
- Yeah, all right.
Good one, Brian.
All right, y'all, you're up with the next one.
- Yeah, so it's a tool I stumbled upon
a while ago when I was looking for some kind of a solution
for bundling all my tools under one umbrella.
So we have like large code bases,
we use microservices so that we have a lot of repositories.
And of course we would like to use some linking
Python style. And then we added another package because we found it pretty useful called Vulture
that finds some unused code and points it out that maybe it should be removed or refactored,
which is quite cool.
That is a fantastic name for that Lint feature. It goes in Python's dead code. Oh my gosh.
Yeah, it's pretty cool.
- Kiran, I just, I love the name.
- Yeah, yeah.
That's one of the latest additions.
And then, because we deal with some security
and vulnerabilities, we decided also to add
bandits to the whole party.
Those are really awesome tools, but
(audio cuts out)
in every configuration, like
Vinter has its own rules, Python style,
you want to ignore some stuff,
well, it's kind of a, requires customization.
So we ended up having like four different customization
profile files for each tool.
And that's okay.
I mean, once you've done it, it's okay.
But then people started to get really frustrated
with their CIs because it became a bit slow
because of the (indistinct)
And even more so, they become a bit frustrated
with all the types, all the different outputs.
So let's say you have issues in piling
and then you have problems with pipe code style.
And first we didn't, we just started failing.
Once you have a failure in piling, you don't proceed.
So you fix piling and then, okay, yay.
But then you have errors in pipe code style,
so on and so on.
So it was really frustrating.
So we said, okay, it fails, but let's continue
and then just speed all the errors done.
But still people had some issues
starting reading the outputs
because it's a different format and they're like,
okay, what does it want from me?
What do I do?
And then the whole thing, the whole experience is,
okay, I finished working on it,
I just wanna post it and get a review in it,
but then I get stuck in this limbo
fixing all this kind of stuff.
So we started thinking what can improve the user
and the dev experience so people won't get frustrated
with the CI 'cause people want people frustrated with CI
but they start disabling features
and that's something that we didn't want.
- Then your CI starts to lose all its value
and everything, right?
- Exactly, exactly.
So I kind of stumbled on Prospector
And I say stumble because it was always there.
It's actually brought by PyCQA, the same guys,
the same organization that are responsible for piling
and for PyCon style.
Somehow I missed the whole bundle thing
that's called a perfector.
I guess it's a bit less popular.
So we started using it.
It bundled all our analysis tools together in one run
and in one unified output.
So it's much easier when you have the output,
just to read it and understand what's going on.
And more than that,
bonuses, we discovered some more tools
that it provides that we weren't even familiar with,
such as a McCabe complexity analysis,
which provides, points out some kind of a,
like in case you have a very big function
nested conditions and stuff.
- Is that like psychromatic complexity and stuff like that?
- Exactly, yes.
So there's actually a link there inside
that takes you to Wikipedia
and explains how all those things are calculated.
But it's pretty nice.
You cannot always follow its rules
because sometimes you have a complex function
It's a legacy code and you don't necessarily
want to mess with it, but it's nice to have this information
or even put it in backlog.
So that's something we discovered.
There's also Pyroma if you do,
or if you have like some missing, let's say contributor RST
or so it will point out all the stuff there.
You have the dodgy package that points out
if you have like some sensitive data,
such as passports or like AWS keys
or things you not necessarily wanna include
in your code base.
So a lot of goodies that come with this perspective
that actually bundles a lot of analysis tools,
which is cool, but our experience,
because it's one output,
And for configuration, which means instead of having like a configuration file for each
of the tools, you have only one tool, the mode.
And more than that, you have profiles, which means like, let's say you have at some point
you would like to run my type.
Okay.
But in some point you don't want, like if you are merging to master, maybe you want
and check vulnerabilities at that point,
but not on every commit because you're still developing.
So super useful and surprisingly,
it runs faster than each tool on its own.
- Wow, that is super cool.
- It takes some time, it takes some time.
I mean, it's not a super fast because first of all,
it installs all the required tools for just in one bundle
and the execution is still the same execution
for all the tools.
But yeah, it really simplifies things.
So, high-handed.
- Cool, good recommendation.
Out in the live stream, Paul Anzal has a question.
Not sure if you know the answer.
Is there a way to add a comment to your code?
For example, #noprospector,
to tell it that a given line is actually not a problem,
similar to how Bandit would disable warnings
with #nosec?
- So Prospector is just a bundle.
It's like behind the scene, it just executes the same tool.
So you would use the same disabled pylint
or disabled Python style or no QA.
So the rules there apply just to each tool differently.
- Got it, makes sense.
- Cool.
- All right, am I up next, Brian?
- Yes.
- I think so.
So another topic on rich,
I feel like we're always talking about rich now, super fun.
I actually just had Will McGugan,
who I see out in the audience,
hey, Will, on Talk Python, so that was really fun.
So here's a thing from Avi Pearl,
Not AviPython, but we'll still accept it.
Just kidding, that's just last name.
Thank you Avi for sending this over
and let us know about it.
So Kunyan Tran created this cool
terminal-based visualizer for Panda's data frames.
So she's into data science and stuff like that.
And like many things that have to do with rich in UI,
just having a screen animation is really all you need
to know whether or not this is useful for you.
And so you can just go to the website
that we'll link to, to the GitHub repo,
and it's got an animated GIF right on the front there.
Super nice.
So just imagine you are in a Jupyter notebook
and you went to a data frame,
you said df.head or tail, something like that,
and you get a little table that comes out.
Well, here's one with animation and color
and all that stuff as a rich table,
you know, the rich library,
generating the table of the data frame right there.
So if you're creating something in the terminal
and you want a nice output for a data frame,
this is pretty simple.
The code that you gotta write is super easy.
So for example, you come up with a data frame somehow,
and then you just say from rich data frame
and import prettyfy,
and then just prettyfy your data frame, and that's it.
Done.
- Yeah, it's cool, right?
You can also apply it to just regular dictionaries
and stuff like that.
And you can control things like,
limit the number of rows that come back,
how many columns will be shown,
in case there's a ton,
you don't want it to fill the screen.
Of course, you can transform your data frame,
but if you just want a quick, like,
hey, just show me the first few columns, it'll do that.
You can either view the head or the tail effectively.
You know, if you're gonna say,
give me 20 columns, there's 2000.
Well, I think that by default it shows the first, the head,
but you can also show it in reverse.
You can clear the console so it just fills the screen,
things like that.
So even control the animation.
So not a lot to do with this, but if it's useful to you,
I think, I mean, like not a lot of gears and ways to use it,
but I think if it's useful to you,
you'll really find it interesting.
- Yeah, all those pretty colors, I like it.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, I love the colors.
So super cool.
- So Rich has a ton of stuff in it,
but I mean, I use the tables like all over the place
because it's just the easiest and prettiest way
to display a table right now in a CLI application.
So. - Awesome.
- I like it, love it.
- Love it, love it.
Raw Intel out in the live stream says,
well, Rich for the win once again,
looks great for SSH session.
Yes, it does.
And I hadn't really even thought about it for that scenario,
but yeah, it definitely does.
And Jared says to us, Brian and me,
I can't thank you enough for all your podcasts
as great as they are, the video format is even better.
Jared, thanks for being here.
We always love having people on the show.
It gives us a little bit more interactive aspects
for all the people listening afterwards.
- Yeah. - With that, Brian, go for it.
- Oh yeah, I'm gonna go back to 310 for now.
So I'm like, one of the things I'm excited about
is the union types like you said for one of the things that was
released is union types so that you can do X or Y.
The thing that I really like about this one of the things is
the optional so you can instead of so if you've got I don't have
an example here but if you've got a function that takes an
integer but it might default to none you can now say that the
type is int or none, and then assign it the default value of none. So it'd be int or none
equal none. And that's, and it's really clean. One of the nice things about that is you don't
have to import optional from typing. So that's really clean. But I was I was like, bummed
because actually a lot of the projects I work on, I have to support more than just 310.
I've got to support 3.7, 3.8.
>> What? You haven't already moved to 3.10?
You guys are such laggards.
>> It's my application.
>> You've got two days. Come on.
>> If you're supporting Python packages,
you want to support more than just one version of Python,
a little bit. You don't have to.
>> No, of course.
>> If you want to.
Then I was excited to see that Adam Johnson put out,
and actually I want to shout out who told me about this.
Oh, I lost it.
Somebody else told me about this, so sorry.
But Adam Johnson wrote an article about type hints,
how to upgrade syntax with PyUpgrade.
Anthony Sotile wrote a PyUpgrade tool.
What it'll do is,
it does a lot of stuff,
but one of the things it does is it changes
this union operator for types.
And it includes, what does it include?
The from future import annotations
that will allow you to use this type,
union types and none in everything back to Python 3.7.
So, supposedly. - Very nice.
- I haven't tried it on 3.7, but that's the claim.
So there's a nice article on how to upgrade your syntax.
- This is a tool, like an automatic tool
- Yeah, it's a pipe grid, so.
- Very nice.
Frederick out in the live stream says,
"The Union Pipe really makes everything
"a lot less noisy and more readable."
Love it.
- Yes.
- Yael, what are you gonna offer?
What are you gonna suggest?
- Oh, the next topic came in.
- Oh, yeah, sure.
- Oh, I actually wanted to--
- Just a comment on that.
I thought you were gonna have a comment on that,
the Brian subbing.
I actually will comment because I really like the
Upgrade stuff because I kind of feel that lately we have I enjoy type annotations
but like with each version
I mean have like a little bit of change and then you have to apply the previous one and then
Like what I would love to see is like some kind of a convention on how to do type hinting
correctly because there are so many versions.
And well, because I'm a bit lazy,
I don't always use type annotations, but I know I should.
And then I use some kind of,
I use the tools like the multi-type
and sometimes I annotate.
So they just add type annotations during run time.
And then it's a kind of a,
then I kind of have some kind of a convention there
because I feel like type annotation,
you can do it in so many ways.
- Yeah, it's a little bit like string formatting.
- Exactly, but eventually we all,
I think we can all agree that f-strings
is the way to go, right?
But right now we're kind of in a wild, wild west
with type annotations because we have those
since 3.3, I think.
But they're evolving, like each new Python version,
you have something new,
and then the old becomes obsolete or frowned upon,
and then you're, oh, you shouldn't do it like that.
But what I would like to see,
maybe a tool such as PyUpgrade that will tell me,
okay, this is the convention,
this is how you should be doing your type hinting
from now on.
- So good idea.
We saw you doing the old way,
here's the new way, do that.
- Yeah.
I'm lazy and I'm gonna do it.
Not entirely, it's not a built in feature still,
like you're using type annotation.
I see a lot of Python users,
just it's fluent for them,
and for me it's like, okay, I'll write my code
and then, okay, I'll start using some type painting.
- Yeah, sounds good.
- Yeah, I think PyUpgrade is the trick.
So it does do a lot of these,
like going from uppercase list to lowercase list
and switching away from optional and things like that.
- I may be running this later today.
This is looking good.
- Some kind of a type formatter,
just make it like it should be.
That's what I would like to see, yeah.
- Exactly.
And you know what time it is?
- Extra time.
You got anything you wanna put up there?
Throw out for people?
- Yeah, actually I don't have any links for it,
but I should have had links up.
But I was, this is hard for me to believe actually,
but in like 2017, a long time ago, 2017, 2018,
I submitted a defect to pytest, the pytest project,
and then I also wrote up a test to describe the defect,
but I didn't know how to fix it.
So that was my first contribution to pytest
is adding test code.
But this last week I added two, had two pull requests,
and they both got accepted and merged.
So the next version of pytest
will actually have my code in it, so.
- Super cool.
Very cool.
Hey, I just realized we skipped Yael's final thing.
Darker.
- Oh, right.
- Yeah, sorry.
Yeah, tell us about that before we get
to the rest of the extras.
- That's fine.
- I feel like you've got these cool ways
to like bring together multiple tools.
Instead of telling people about Bandit,
you're like, here's how to use Bandit, all these things.
Or instead of black,
here's how to like do all these different things.
- Yeah, yeah.
I kind of like combining things
and then make it more general.
Because, I mean, the Python ecosystem is so rich.
There are so many things.
Yeah.
So it's nice to bring some stuff together, bundled,
and easy to use.
So darter is something also I stumble--
well, I was recommended by a friend
after describing a problem or my resentment,
even to black formatter.
I know it's not a popular take,
maybe I shouldn't say it,
but until recently I was kind of,
it's not that I don't enjoy black formatting.
I think it looks great, it's more readable, it's nice.
But I had some major issues with,
well, with myself and colleagues
that you get sometimes over-enthusiastic.
Like, okay, I start to write some code
and I don't know if it's a bug fix or I'm adding some feature
and I'm done, but then yay, I wanna make it black
because it's cool.
And then I run black on the model
or sometimes if I really wanna,
I'll run it on the entire package.
And then I submit my PR and my PR
I have like one, I don't know, some hundred changed files
because I ran black or even if it's in the model,
like the whole model is like brand new.
And if I have to review such code, I would say,
okay, where to start?
Where do I begin?
Because I don't know what--
- Why are there so many changes, right?
- What changes, right?
- Yeah, I mean, I don't know.
I mean, I don't know what's going on.
I don't know what's going on.
There's so many changes, right?
Yeah, and it became a real issue because on one hand,
we had a lot of developers that were really into black,
let's make everything black, let's make everything beautiful.
And on the other hand, we would get those huge PRs.
Like, OK, where do I start?
Where do I even start?
So we started restricting black.
We said, at some point, as a group,
We decided, okay, no more black.
But that was also very frustrating.
And then I had some talks with a friend of mine
and say, okay, you should use darker.
Darker is a really tiny, it's not a big package.
That's a very lightweight.
And what it does, it takes a little bit more
conservative approach.
It doesn't say, okay, just black everything
and have a huge PR.
It says, okay, you want to have to convert your code
being beautiful and black, but let's make it gradually.
And then you have, and then you eliminate this huge PR
and this huge mess, just change the stuff you need,
run a Docker just on the file,
or even on the entire code base.
and then it will format only the changes
you made in the file.
So here's, I think, let's see.
- Yeah, that's cool. - Nice example here.
- I love that it runs on the last Git changes.
- Exactly, it's actually does, it's very simple.
I can't believe no one thought of it before.
It's like so simple because what it does,
just without git diff, gets the changes,
and then just runs black formatting on those changes.
And then you have a normal looking PR with nice formatting.
And yeah, you won't get the whole beautiful black
all in one.
But eventually, I think it's more this way.
And we started using it a couple of months ago.
And I think it has a good progress.
And we just integrated it into our pre-commit hooks.
So it's kind of seamless.
It's not that you need to remember running black.
Of course you can also integrate it in PyCharm or VS Code.
I think even Vim,
for people who are fond of Vim and stuff.
I think that's kind of a flag.
- I don't know who would do that.
- Yeah, I don't know.
Who are those people anyways?
(laughing)
But yeah, so it's simple.
It's really nice and made by,
I hope I'll get them right.
Auntie, Auntie Kahoyla, yes.
- Yeah, awesome.
I think this is great.
Paul out in the audience has an interesting bit of feedback.
This would be super helpful
if you're starting to enforce code standards
on an already existent repo,
which is most kind of code he works with.
- Right. - So, yeah.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, if you're starting like new projects,
so yeah, black it all the way, that's fine.
- Yeah, I've heard recommendations before
to just have one commit that just does the black thing,
but one of the problems with that
is you lose sort of the history
of when the file really was last modified.
So if a file hasn't been touched in two years,
it's kind of nice to leave it as not touched for two years
so that you can kind of see the history.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- For sure.
- Because if you'll run black
and on a five year old code base,
it would look like you did it all from the beginning.
- On the other hand, if you were up your commit status,
number of lines changed way more than the rest of the team,
you can always do that.
- Yeah, yeah, you could.
(laughing)
- All right.
I know y'all, you have a couple of things
that you wanna give a shout out to at the end here as well.
So let's just keep going with those.
- Yeah, sure.
So I have two things.
The first one is actually a colleague of mine
and he's been writing a book, a very interesting book.
A bit of a controversial book if you dive into it.
What he basically says,
Object-oriented is good for some, but in general, when you deal with complex problems,
object-oriented programming might even make stuff a lot more complicated in terms of debugging,
in terms of separation of concerns.
And then he presents some kind of a new way
to deal with the data and how we process data.
So it's data-oriented programming.
I have to admit, I read some of the chapters.
Not all.
I didn't finish the book.
It's still-- it's also still work in progress,
but most of it's complete.
But you don't have to agree on everything,
but all approaches, the combination
of data-oriented programming with functional programming,
I think there are some benefits to it.
And some complex problems can be solved faster and easier
and with less debugging strain.
Like for me, I have this rule of thumb
that if I have to activate debugger over and over again
to understand what the code does,
instead of just reading the code,
it means that something with the code is not 100% right.
Because the code should be readable.
And I encountered this issues when working
with very heavy object-oriented code bases,
like a lot of inheritance and multi-inheritance,
and then I went to Django and they use mixed in.
It is hard.
It is hard to design, it is hard to,
but mostly it is hard to read.
And this approach, it's interesting.
As I said, I'm not fully,
like I'm not fully agree that,
okay, object-oriented should be gone from the world.
It's not my stand, but I think--
Some people have made that stand, but it still is around, isn't it?
Yeah, but I'm not completely sure.
But I think in some cases, there are approaches that are much more lightweight
and the whole thing with data versus code separation, I think it's nice.
I think it's...
Nice.
And it's kind of, yeah, it kind of change,
rewires your brain a bit after you read the chapter
to like make you--
- Maybe it's one of those things like functional programming
you don't necessarily do it all the time,
but you read it and it gives you a different perspective
even if you don't totally adopt it.
- Yeah, exactly.
- That's a good thing.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
Okay. - All right.
- Yeah, a little bit self-promotion here.
So a few months ago, I released my first open source project.
Cornell was actually covered by Brian, I think,
two months ago.
Yeah, so I just wanted to do a little shout out
to all developers out there who are looking
to contribute to a little but nice,
with a very nice documentation project.
It's only the beginning.
What it does is it's actually a record and replay server for mock.
It's a mock server that records the real data
and then can be used as part of a CI
and for purposes of end-to-end testing.
Because if you have some kind of an entry point
that starts a cascade of events, including salary or whatever.
And just then, eventually you reach the part
when you go out and send an HTTP request.
So here, Cornell comes in handy.
We use it quite a lot.
Previous company, and I'm trying to now integrate it
in my current workplace.
And I think it has some potential.
And it's not very mature.
So I would love, like really, if someone
wants to contribute even a typo or documentation or whatever,
we really warmly welcome all contributions.
Yeah, that's great.
Brian asked me on that episode where
I thought the name came from.
And I thought Chris Cornell from Soundgarden and all that.
Is that correct?
Black Hole Sun and all those things?
- Well, you see the face, what the face reminds you of.
- Yeah, it does now.
I don't think I saw it,
I didn't teach you that before,
but yeah, now that I see it,
I'm more confident in my answer.
- Yeah, you were correct, indeed.
- Right on, right on.
All right, well, I got a few more extras
to share with the world.
Let's see, I just, like literally midnight last night,
released a new course,
"HTMX + Flask, Modern Web Apps Hold the JavaScript."
So this is a three hour course that like dives into
cool ways of putting HTMX and Flask together.
And it also brings together some of the other things
we've talked about on the podcast before.
When I was creating this course,
I didn't really like the way that you would reuse HTML.
I have a lot of duplication and other crummy stuff.
So I created the Jinja partials
and Chameleon partials projects to make this code better.
But anyone who uses HTMX with Jinja or Chameleon
So definitely check those out.
That's covered in the course.
There's also just links to it.
Course does cost money, but you can go
and get the GitHub repo and check out the stuff there.
So that's really cool.
We built like a really fun little app there
and add a bunch of HTMX things to it.
So link in the show notes, check that out.
Auto-optional, we've got an update, an update from Dan.
So Brian, did you cover this?
I covered this last time, I think.
But the update is, yeah, we were talking about
So it'll go and do auto optional stuff where if you say something is like,
x colon int equals none as a default value, it goes, no, no, no, no, no,
that doesn't make sense.
So it'll create an optional of int automatically and correct the typing.
But we made the comment, Brian, I think maybe you did, I can't remember who,
but said, "Oh, it'd be really cool if we could use the pipe syntax
that we just talked about earlier.
So auto-optional has been updated to create xpipenone
instead of optional of x, which is really cool.
Yeah, I love it.
I love how the podcast helps bring some of this feedback
to the world.
- Change the world.
- That's right.
We have made a dent in the universe, Brian,
and it is xpipenone.
Okay, coverage, Ned Batchelder just released coverage
on Monday.
So coverage six, which is a major reason.
Python 2 has been expelled from coverage,
which is all good.
And 30 third-party packages are automatically ignored,
which could be a big change for some people.
All right, a bunch of other stuff.
You can check it out if you care a lot.
Django 3.2.8 is out with a couple of bug fixes
about read-only fields and admin
and some regression bug going on.
So check that out as well.
- Sweet.
- Yep.
Well, I guess this might be a time for a joke.
Shall we finish it with a joke?
- Yes. - As we often do.
- All right, going back to the very reliable
Geek and Poke here, we have paired Captcha,
as in reCaptcha, you know, the little pop up
and you get the different panels that you gotta say,
like click all of the crosswalks
or click all of the dogs or whatever.
All right, Brian, let's do this together like last time.
I'll do the first one, the woman developer
or just computer user trying to get through this.
So is this a traffic light or just a light?
- No idea.
I guess I would guess a traffic light.
- Nope.
(laughing)
Does the gray pixel in the corner
also belong to the street sign?
And on and on it goes.
(laughing)
- A sad statement on our digital existence.
- There's been some where I'm stumped.
I'm like, I don't know.
- I know.
- Next question, please.
- Sometimes I just wrong three times in a row.
So embarrassing.
Am I a machine?
- I couldn't find all the mountains.
Yeah, the worst is when you find all this stuff correctly,
then it refreshes and go find some more of them.
I just found them all.
Why are you doing this to me?
- You seem like you like to find traffic lights.
Here, have some more.
- You look bored.
We got some more lights for you.
All right, well, that's the joke I brought for you all.
- Well, thanks.
And I appreciate you finding them.
That's cool.
So thanks a lot, everybody.
And we'll wrap it up for today.
And thanks everybody on the stream for joining us.
We really appreciate it.
- Yeah, thanks.
- Yeah, thank you especially for being here.
- Yeah, it was really fun.
Thank you.
[BLANK_AUDIO]